Update Docs - Remove Screenshots, Reorganize content, Fix style concerns (#17)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-agents: website/docs/cloud-docs/agents/agent-pools.mdx

---

> page_title: Terraform Cloud Agents - Agent Pools- Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise

Author: ```suggestion
page_title: Terraform Cloud Agents - Managing Agent Pools - Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise
```

description: >-
  Agent pools are groups of one or more agents in Terraform Cloud. Create agent pools and assign them to one or more workspaces.
---

# Manage Agent Pools

Terraform Cloud organizes agents into pools. Each workspace can specify which agent pool should run its workloads.

## Permissions

Managing agent pools requires the following permissions:

- You must be a member of the **Owners** team within your organization to manage an organization's agents.
- You must have **Admin** access to a workspace before you can change its [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode) to use an agent pool.

Refer to [Permissions](/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions) in the Terraform Cloud documentation for details.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Security Considerations

!> **Warning:** We recommend carefully considering the implications of enabling agents within an organization and restricting organization access to trusted parties.

> Any workspace owner may configure their workspace to target the organization's agents. This action may allow a malicious workspace to access state files, variables, or code from other workspaces targeting the same agent, or access sensitive data on the host running the agent.

Author: oh this is a good point! I'll remove everything but the last part - thank you!

> Any workspace owner may configure their workspace to target the organization's agents. This action may allow a malicious workspace to access state files, variables, or code from other workspaces targeting the same agent, or access sensitive data on the host running the agent.

Author: ```suggestion
Any workspace owner may configure their workspace to target the organization's agents. This action may allow a malicious workspace to access sensitive data on the host running the agent.
```

> Agents should be considered a global resource within an organization. Once configured, any workspace owner may configure their workspace to target the organization's agents. This may allow a malicious workspace to access state files, variables, or code from other workspaces targeting the same agent, or access sensitive data on the host running the agent.

Author: okay! I'm going to tweak this a bit - but thank you for calling this out :)

## Create an Agent Pool

To create an agent pool:

1. Navigate to your organization's settings, select **Agents**, and then click **Create agent pool**.

1. Enter an **Agent Pool Name**, and then click **Continue**. Terraform Cloud uses this name to distinguish agent pools in a workspace's settings.

1. Enter a token **Description**, and then click **Create Token**.

> 1. Save your token information in a secure location. The token is required to connect an agent to a Terraform Cloud agent pool, and Terraform Cloud does not display the token again after this step.

Author: hmm I think in this case, I'd prefer to start the second sentence with "the token" as it helps with continuity between the two parts of the instruction. But I'll reword slightly.

## Scope an Agent Pool to Specific Workspaces

Scoping an agent pool lets you specify which workspaces are allowed to use it. The agent pool is only available from within the chosen workspaces, and it will not appear other workspace's lists of available agent pools.

~> **Important:** Scoping an agent pool does not remove it from workspaces that are actively using it. To remove access, you must first remove the agent pool from within the workspace's settings.

To scope an agent pool to specific workspaces within the organization:

1. Click **Settings** and then **Agents**. A list of agent pools for the organization appears.

1. Click the name of the pool you would like to update.

1. Click **Grant access to specific workspaces**. A menu opens where you can search for workspaces within this organization.

1. Type in the search field to find available workspaces and select the workspaces that should have access to the agent pool.

1. Click **Save**.

Only the specified workspaces can use the agent pool.

## Configure Workspaces to use the Agent

> Do the following steps to configure a workspace to use an agent pool.

Author: I like "the following" because it shows that the steps are coming immediately after. But I do like Use - I'll update it to that!

### Step 1: Manage Existing Runs

Changing a workspace's [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode) after Terraform completes a plan causes that run to error during apply. To minimize these errors, do the following in the workspace before you change the execution mode:

1. Disable [auto-apply](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#auto-apply-and-manual-apply).
1. Wait for the workspace to complete any runs that are no longer in the [pending stage](/cloud-docs/run/states#1-the-pending-stage).
1. [Lock the workspace](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#locking) to prevent new runs.

### Step 2: Select Agent Pool

To configure the workspace to execute runs using an agent:

1. Go to the workspace's **General Settings** page.
1. Select **Agent** as the [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode), and select the agent pool this workspace should use.
1. Click **Save Settings**.

The workspace begins using the agent for Terraform runs. Runs involving an agent include information about that agent in the run details. Terraform Cloud may use different agents for the plan and apply operations, depending on agent availability within the pool.

> ## Revoke an Agent Token

Author: I added in some context to try to get at this more explicitly. Let me know what you think!

> ## Revoke an Agent Token

Reviewer: Great!

You may revoke an issued token from your agents at any time.

> Revoking a token causes the agents using it to exit. You must reinitialize agents with a new token before they can continue servicing workspace jobs. You may want to generate a new token first, initialize the agents using it, and then revoke the old token once no agents are using it. Agent tokens display information about the last time an agent used them. You can use this information to help you decide whether a token is safe to revoke.

Author: ```suggestion
Revoking a token causes the agents using it to exit. You must reinitialize agents with a new token before they can continue servicing workspace jobs. 

You should allow active runs in the agent pool to finish before revoking the token. If you de-authorize an agent while it is still performing a run, the agent does not post updates about that run. We recommend generating a new token first, initializing the agents using it, and then revoking the old token once no agents are using it. Agent tokens display information about the last time an agent used them. You can use this information to help you decide whether a token is safe to revoke.
```

1. Click **Revoke Token** for the token you would like to revoke.

1. Click **Yes, delete token** to confirm.

## Delete an Agent Pool

~> **Important:** You cannot delete an agent pool that is still associated with one or more workspaces.

To delete an agent pool:

1. Wait for all associated workspaces to complete all in progress runs.
1. Remove the agent pool from all associated workspaces.
1. Navigate to your organization's settings, select **Agents**, and then click the name of the agent pool you would like to delete.
1. Click **Delete agent pool**.
1. Click **Yes, delete agent pool** to confirm.

## View Agent Statuses

Terraform Cloud shows status on the **Organization Settings > Agents** page. An agent can have one of the following statuses:

- **Idle**: The agent is running normally and waiting for jobs to be available.
- **Busy**: The agent is running normally and currently executing a job.
- **Unknown**: The agent has not reported any status for an unexpected period of time. The agent may yet recover if the agent's situation is temporary, such as a short-lived network partition.

> - **Errored**: The agent encountered an unrecoverable error or has been in an Unknown state for long enough that Terraform Cloud considers it errored. This may indicate that the agent process was interrupted, has crashed, a _permanent_ network partition exists, etc. If the agent was in the process of running an operation (such as a plan or apply), that operation has been marked as errored. If the current agent process does manage to recover, it is instructed to exit immediately.

Author: A couple of tweaks to fix the actors in this - but thank you!

- **Exited**: The agent exited normally and successfully informed Terraform of it doing so.

## Agent Capacity Usage

> The number of concurrent runs your organization is entitled to use determines the number of active agents you can deploy. Agents are available in the [Terraform Cloud Business Tier](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/pricing).

Author: ```suggestion
The number of agents you can deploy depends on the number of concurrent runs allowed in your organization. Agents are available in the [Terraform Cloud Business Tier](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/pricing).
```

> The number of active agents you are eligible to deploy is determined by the number of Concurrent Runs your organization is entitled to. Agents are available as part of the [Terraform Cloud Business Tier](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/pricing).

Author: A couple quick tweaks, but overall I like this edit - thank you!

> The number of active agents you are eligible to deploy is determined by the number of Concurrent Runs your organization is entitled to. Agents are available as part of the [Terraform Cloud Business Tier](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/pricing).

Reviewer 2: "is entitled to" is still passive voice.

> Agents are considered active and count towards the organization's purchased agent capacity if they are in the **Idle**, **Busy**, or **Unknown** state. Agents that are in the **Errored** or **Exited** state do not count towards the organization's total agent capacity.

Author: I'm just going to take out the bit about the being active altogether, as I think the main point is just telling folks when they count toward your capacity.

> Agents in the **Unknown** state continue to count against the organization's total agent allowance, as this status is typically an indicator of a temporary communication issue between the agent and Terraform Cloud. **Unknown** agents that do not respond after a period of 2 hours automatically transition to an **Errored** state, at which point they do not count against the agent allowance.

Author: thank you!

> Agents in the **Unknown** state continue to be counted against the organization's total agent allowance, as this status is typically an indicator of a temporary communication issue between the agent and Terraform Cloud. **Unknown** agents that do not respond after a period of 2 hours will automatically transition to an **Errored** state, at which point they will not count against the agent allowance.

Author: ```suggestion
Agents in the **Unknown** state continue to be counted against the organization's total agent allowance, as this status is typically an indicator of a temporary communication issue between the agent and Terraform Cloud. **Unknown** agents that do not respond after a period of 2 hours will automatically transition to an **Errored** state, at which point they do not count against the agent allowance.
```

> Agents may have an **Unknown** status if they are terminated without gracefully exiting. Agents should always be shut down according to the [Stopping the Agent](#stopping-the-agent) section to allow them to deregister from Terraform Cloud. We strongly recommend ensuring that any process supervisor, application scheduler, or other runtime manager is configured to follow this procedure to minimize **Unknown** agent statuses.

Author: A couple of updates to fix even more things! For example, I don't like how the sentence ends with two prepositional phrases so I'm gonna put one up front. Thank you!

---

# Manage Agent Pools

Terraform Cloud organizes agents into pools. Each workspace can specify which agent pool should run its workloads.

## Permissions

Managing agent pools requires the following permissions:

- You must be a member of the **Owners** team within your organization to manage an organization's agents.
- You must have **Admin** access to a workspace before you can change its [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode) to use an agent pool.

Refer to [Permissions](/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions) in the Terraform Cloud documentation for details.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Security Considerations

!> **Warning:** We recommend carefully considering the implications of enabling agents within an organization and restricting organization access to trusted parties.

Any workspace owner may configure their workspace to target the organization's agents. This action may allow a malicious workspace to access sensitive data on the host running the agent.

## Create an Agent Pool

To create an agent pool:

> 1. Navigate to your organization's settings, click **Agents**, and then click **Create agent pool**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to your organization's settings, click **Agents**, and then click **Create agent pool**.
```

> 1. Navigate to your organization's settings, select **Agents**, and then click **Create agent pool**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your organization's settings, click **Agents**, and then click **Create agent pool**.
```

1. Enter an **Agent Pool Name**, and then click **Continue**. Terraform Cloud uses this name to distinguish agent pools in a workspace's settings.

1. Enter a token **Description**, and then click **Create Token**.

1. Save your token information in a secure location. You need the token to connect an agent to this Terraform Cloud agent pool, and Terraform Cloud does not display the token again after this step.

1. Click **Finish**.

To connect an agent to this pool, [start an agent](/cloud-docs/agents/agents#start-an-agent) and provide it with the token for this agent pool.

## Scope an Agent Pool to Specific Workspaces

Scoping an agent pool lets you specify which workspaces can use it. The agent pool is only available from within the chosen workspaces, and it does not appear other workspace's lists of available agent pools.

~> **Important:** Scoping an agent pool does not remove it from workspaces that are actively using it. To remove access, you must first remove the agent pool from within the workspace's settings.

To scope an agent pool to specific workspaces within the organization:

> 1. Click **Settings** and then **Agents**. A list of agent pools for the organization appears.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to your organization's settings, and then click **Agents**. The **Agents** page appears, with a list of agent pools for the organization.
```

1. Select **Agent** as the [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode), and select the agent pool this workspace should use.
1. Click **Save Settings**.

The workspace begins using the agent for Terraform runs. Runs involving an agent include information about that agent in the run details. Terraform Cloud may use different agents for the plan and apply operations, depending on agent availability within the pool.

## Revoke an Agent Token

You may revoke an issued token from your agents at any time.

Revoking a token causes the agents using it to exit. You must reinitialize agents with a new token before they can continue servicing workspace jobs. 

You should allow active runs in the agent pool to finish before revoking the token. If you de-authorize an agent while it is still performing a run, the agent does not post updates about that run. We recommend generating a new token first, initializing the agents using it, and then revoking the old token once no agents are using it. Agent tokens display information about the last time an agent used them. You can use this information to help you decide whether a token is safe to revoke.

> 1. Navigate to your organization's settings, select **Agents**, and then click the name of the agent pool you want to manage.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your organization's settings, click **Agents**, and then click the name of the agent pool you want to manage.
```

1. Click **Revoke Token** for the token you want to revoke.

1. Click **Yes, delete token** to confirm.

## Delete an Agent Pool

~> **Important:** You cannot delete an agent pool that is still associated with one or more workspaces.

To delete an agent pool:

1. Wait for all associated workspaces to complete all in progress runs.
1. Remove the agent pool from all associated workspaces.

> 1. Navigate to your organization's settings, select **Agents**, and then click the name of the agent pool you want to delete.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your organization's settings, click **Agents**, and then click the name of the agent pool you want to delete.
```

1. Click **Delete agent pool**.
1. Click **Yes, delete agent pool** to confirm.

## View Agent Statuses

> Terraform Cloud shows status on the **Organization Settings > Agents** page. An agent can have one of the following statuses:

Author: ```suggestion
To view agent statuses, go to your organization's settings and click **Agents**. The **Agents** page appears, containing a list of agents and their corresponding statuses. An agent can have one of the following statuses:
```
